# Emerging Technologies

This repository contains two programs for submission in the 4th year module "Emerging Technologies". These two programs are a Trigrams Notebook and an ELIZA Chatbot, explained in further detail below.


### Trigrams
A Juypter notebook that takes in a set of texts and creates a dictionary of trigrams, which it then uses to generate a Third-Order Letter Approximation.

Texts for this notebook were obtained from Project Gutenberg, and stored in the /texts/ folder.
This program outputs a trigrams.json containing the trigrams generated from the texts. An example of this output is included in the repository.

### ELIZA
An implementation of the traditional ELIZA chatbot, built for a website with JavaScript, HTML and CSS.

The base responses for this chatbot were generated by ChatGPT and adapted to build regex patterns. ELIZA takes in the user input, selects the appropriate response and returns with a reflection where appropriate. For example, "I need a burger." can become "Why do you need a burger?".


## Execution

Described below is how to run or access the programs in this repository.

### trigrams.ipynb
This is a Jupyter Notebook, and can therefore be ran in any IDE that supports .ipynb files so long as you have Python installed. Here's an example with VSC:

1. Clone this repository and open it in VSC. You can remove the /eliza/ folder if you don't wish to use it.
2. Add or remove files from /texts/. A higher number of more modern texts will make the model more accurate, but it will also take longer.
    1. You may also change words.txt if required - this is used to estimate how accurate the model is.
3. Run trigrams.ipynb by clicking the "run all" button. You may have to select a python environment.


### ELIZA Chatbot Page

You can clone this repository and host the files in /eliza/ on your own webpage if you wish, but I've already hosted it on Github Pages [here](https://oisin-hearne.github.io/Emerging-Technologies-Repo/).

This page is automatically updated on commit via Github Actions.

## References

References and Citations can be found in the code for both programs - specifically, the markdown cells in trigrams.ipynb and the comments in eliza.js.